<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>KDE User's Manual</title>
<date>2010-10-06</date>
<productname>K Desktop Environment</productname>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>plasmaengineexplorer</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>plasmaengineexplorer</command></refname>
<refpurpose>Provides direct access to plasma data engines</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>plasmaengineexplorer</command>

<group choice="opt"><option>--list</option></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>--height</option> <replaceable> pixels</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>--width</option> <replaceable> pixels</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-x</option> <replaceable> pixels</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-y</option> <replaceable> pixels</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>--engine</option> <replaceable> data engine</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>--source</option> <replaceable> data engine</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>--interval</option> <replaceable> ms</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>--app</option> <replaceable> application</replaceable></group>

</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>plasmaengineexplorer</command>
<arg choice="opt">KDE Generic Options</arg>
<arg choice="opt">Qt Generic Options</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>
<para><command>plasmaengineexplorer</command> is a graphical tool allowing developers to
test Plasma data engines without writing a Plasma applet.</para>

<para>If no options are given, it will start without any data engine
selected.  The required data engine can be selected from a drop-down list.</para>

<para>Only installed data engines will be found.
<command>kbuildsycoca4</command> may need to be run for newly-installed
data engines to be found.</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--list <replaceable>pixels</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Displays a list of known engines and their descriptions.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--height</option></term>
<listitem><para>Sets the height of the window, in pixels.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--width <replaceable>pixels</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Sets the width of the window, in pixels.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-x <replaceable>pixels</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Sets the x (horizontal) co-ordinate of the top left corner of the window, in pixels.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-y <replaceable>pixels</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Sets the y (vertical) co-ordinate of the top left corner of the window, in pixels.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--engine <replaceable>data engine</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Start <command>plasmaengineexplorer</command> with the given data engine
selected.  <parameter>data engine</parameter> is the internal name of the data engine given by
the X-KDE-PluginInfo-Name key of the desktop file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--source <replaceable>data engine</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Only valid in conjunction with <option>--engine</option>.
Requests a specific source from the data engine when
<command>plasmaengineexplorer</command> is started.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--interval <replaceable>time</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Sets the default update interval for requested sources
to <parameter>time</parameter> milliseconds.  If not set, the source will update
on demand (for some sources, this will be when new data is available).</para>

<para>If <option>--source</option> is specified, this is the update interval
that will be used when requesting that source.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>--app <replaceable>application</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>Only show engines associated with the parent application; maps to the 
X-KDE-ParentApp entry in the DataEngine's .desktop file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>

<para>More detailed user documentation is available from <ulink
url="help:/plasma-desktop">help:/plasma-desktop</ulink>
(either enter this <acronym>URL</acronym> into &konqueror;, or run
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command>
<parameter>help:/plasma-desktop</parameter></userinput>).</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Examples</title>
<para>Load the time data engine, showing the local time and updating every
second:</para>
<screen><userinput><command>plasmaengineexplorer</command> <option>--engine time</option> <option>--source Local</option> <option>--interval 1000</option></userinput></screen>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Authors</title>
<para><command>plasmaengineexplorer</command> was written by
<personname><firstname>Aaron</firstname><surname>Seigo</surname></personname> <email>aseigo@kde.org</email>.</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
